Add OPL tutorial (#423)
oasisprotocol/docs: docs/dapp/opl/host.md

# DAO Contract

Let's start with a `DAOV1.sol` smart contract that describes a basic DAO with a

> mapping of proposals. Place it inside your `contracts/` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mapping of proposals. Such contract will be deployed on your home network such as BNB or Polygon. Place it inside your `contracts/` directory.
```

        proposal.active = true;
        activeProposals.add(proposalHash);
        return proposalId;
    }

    function getActiveProposals(
        uint256 _offset,
        uint256 _count
    ) external view returns (ProposalWithId[] memory _proposals) {
        if (_offset + _count > activeProposals.length()) {
            _count = activeProposals.length() - _offset;
        }
        _proposals = new ProposalWithId[](_count);
        for (uint256 i; i < _count; ++i) {
            ProposalId id = ProposalId.wrap(activeProposals.at(_offset + i));
            _proposals[i] = ProposalWithId({id: id, proposal: proposals[id]});
        }
    }

    function getPastProposals(
        uint256 _offset,
        uint256 _count
    ) external view returns (ProposalWithId[] memory _proposals) {
        if (_offset + _count > pastProposals.length) {
            _count = pastProposals.length - _offset;
        }
        _proposals = new ProposalWithId[](_count);
        for (uint256 i; i < _count; ++i) {
            ProposalId id = pastProposals[_offset + i];
            _proposals[i] = ProposalWithId({id: id, proposal: proposals[id]});
        }
    }
}
```

> Note that every proposal here contains an [IPFS](https://ipfs.tech) [hash](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/hashing/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of storing complete ballot proposals on the blockchain we will use [IPFS](https://ipfs.tech).
Our smart contract will only store a [hash](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/hashing/)
```

Author: Using a version of this.

> to a pinned IPFS [file](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/lifecycle/#_1-content-addressable-representation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a pinned [IPFS file](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/lifecycle/#_1-content-addressable-representation) with the proposal.
```

```solidity
struct ProposalParams {
    string ipfsHash;
    uint16 numChoices;
    bool publishVotes;
}
```

Our very simple DAO contract creates proposals and manages them, allowing
both active (`getActiveProposals`) and past proposals (`getPastProposals`) to
be queried externally.

### OPL Differences

> What OPL refers to as a *host contract* is just a smart contract that sits

Reviewer: This is the first time a "host" term for the network is used, so:

```suggestion
A *host contract* is a formal term for the smart contract that sits
```

> on a "host" network such as BNB or Polygon. We instantiate a `Host` and add

Reviewer: The term "Home network" is used on privacy-layer-diagram, so let's use it.

```suggestion
on a home network. We extend the `Host` contract provided by OPL and add
```

Author: Good term

> our event handling to cross-chain messages. Let's make the following changes to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
own implementation of event handling to cross-chain messages. Let's make the following changes to
```

> our existing `DAOV1.sol`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DAOV1.sol`.
```

+    constructor(address _ballotBox) Host(_ballotBox) {
+        registerEndpoint("ballotClosed", _oplBallotClosed);
+    }
 
     function createProposal(ProposalParams calldata _params) external payable returns (ProposalId) {
         bytes32 proposalHash = keccak256(abi.encode(msg.sender, _params));
@@ -47,6 +50,7 @@ contract DAOV1 {
         proposal.params = _params;
         proposal.active = true;
         activeProposals.add(proposalHash);
+        postMessage("createBallot", abi.encode(proposalId, _params));
         return proposalId;
     }
 
@@ -77,4 +81,14 @@ contract DAOV1 {
             _proposals[i] = ProposalWithId({id: id, proposal: proposals[id]});
         }
     }
+
+    function _oplBallotClosed(bytes calldata _args) internal returns (Result) {
+        (ProposalId proposalId, uint16 topChoice) = abi.decode(_args, (ProposalId, uint16));
+        proposals[proposalId].topChoice = topChoice;
+        proposals[proposalId].active = false;
+        activeProposals.remove(ProposalId.unwrap(proposalId));
+        pastProposals.push(proposalId);
+        emit ProposalClosed(proposalId, topChoice);
+        return Result.Success;
+    }
 }
```

#### Constructor

> This smart contract will need to know the address of the Enclave smart contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a constructor parameter, we provide the address of the confidential (also called *enclave*) smart contract deployed on the Oasis Sapphire.
```

Author: Good detail.

```solidity
    constructor(address _ballotBox) Host(_ballotBox) {
        registerEndpoint("ballotClosed", _oplBallotClosed);
    }
```

#### Endpoints

> Registering an endpoint allows access to functions are effectively callbacks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the events in solidity are non-confidential and do not allow cross-chain communication OPL uses *endpoints* for passing the cross-chain messages. Endpoints are effectively callbacks
```

> which listen to messages from the Enclaved smart contract. This function allows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which listen to messages from the enclave smart contract. The function below will
```

> the host contract to listen and close the proposal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
listen to such messages and then close the ballot proposal.
```

# DAO Contract

> Let's start with a simple smart contract `DAOV1.sol` that describes a basic DAO

Reviewer: I wouldn't call 84-lines long contract a simple one ;) Calling it simple may scare some ppl away.

```suggestion
Let's start with a `DAOV1.sol` smart contract that describes a basic DAO
```

> with a mapping of proposals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with a mapping of proposals. Store it inside your `contracts/` folder.
```

> ```solidity

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```solidity
```

            _proposals[i] = ProposalWithId({id: id, proposal: proposals[id]});
        }
    }

    function getPastProposals(
        uint256 _offset,
        uint256 _count
    ) external view returns (ProposalWithId[] memory _proposals) {
        if (_offset + _count > pastProposals.length) {
            _count = pastProposals.length - _offset;
        }
        _proposals = new ProposalWithId[](_count);
        for (uint256 i; i < _count; ++i) {
            ProposalId id = pastProposals[_offset + i];
            _proposals[i] = ProposalWithId({id: id, proposal: proposals[id]});
        }
    }
}
```

Note that every proposal here contains an [IPFS](https://ipfs.tech) [hash](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/hashing/)
to a pinned IPFS [file](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/lifecycle/#_1-content-addressable-representation).

```solidity
struct ProposalParams {
    string ipfsHash;
    uint16 numChoices;
    bool publishVotes;
}
```

Our very simple DAO contract creates proposals and manages them, allowing
both active (`getActiveProposals`) and past proposals (`getPastProposals`) to
be queried externally.

### OPL Differences

> What OPL refers to as a ***host*** contract is just a smart contract that sits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What OPL refers to as a *host contract* is just a smart contract that sits
```

on a "host" network such as BNB or Polygon. We instantiate a `Host` and add
our event handling to cross-chain messages. Let's make the following changes to
our existing `DAOV1.sol`.

```diff

> diff --git a/backend/contracts/DAOV1.sol b/backend/contracts/DAOV1.sol

Reviewer: I'm having issues applying this patch. Please fix it.

```
oa@matevz-oa:~/opl-secret-ballot/backend$ patch -p2 < patch 
patching file contracts/DAOV1.sol
patch: **** malformed patch at line 22: @@ -40,7 +56,9 @@ contract DAOV1 {
```

Author: Thanks. Fixed.
